<a name="top-page"></a>

This documentation makes the assumption that your shell is located in the directory where you cloned obm-deploy repository.

Also, whatever installation method you use, your virtualhost must be activated.

#### Table of contents

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->

- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Root access](#root-access)
  - [Host names resolving](#host-names-resolving)
  - [SSH connection without a key pair](#ssh-connection-without-a-key-pair)
  - [Sudo usage](#sudo-usage)
- [OBM-Deploy usage](#obm-deploy-usage)
  - [Installing an obm-full (all services on the same host)](#installing-an-obm-full-all-services-on-the-same-host)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

<a name="prerequisites"></a>

<br />
Prerequisites  [&#x25B2;](#top-page "back to top")
=============

<a name="root-access"></a>

Root access
-----------

OBM-Deploy uses SSH to connect to remote hosts using root account.

This is a prerequisite but we will try to allow non-root accounts in the future.

So, ensure that you can connect to your remote hosts as root before trying to run OBM-Deploy.

<a name="host-names-resolving"></a>

Host names resolving
--------------------

Another constraint is that OBM-Deploy needs to be able to resolve host names.

So, you need to add all your remote hosts with their IP addresses in your /etc/hosts file or add them in your DNS server.

<a name="ssh-connection-without-a-key-pair"></a>

SSH connection without a key pair
---------------------------------

OBM-Deploy needs, if you want to do a fully unattended deployment, that your SSH public key has been added to /root/.ssh/authorized_keys.

It is also possible to authenticate using a password but you need to do two things :

 - Add this option in ansible.cfg :

    ask_pass = True


 - Add this configuration in /home/*your_username*/.ssh/config file :

    Host your_remote_host
      PubkeyAuthentication no

<a name="sudo-usage"></a>

Sudo usage
----------

Sudo usage has been disabled in obm-deploy for the moment.

We will probably reintroduce it in the future.

<a name="obm-deploy-usage"></a>

<br />
OBM-Deploy usage  [&#x25B2;](#top-page "back to top")
================

<a name="installing-an-obm-full-all-services-on-the-same-host"></a>

Installing an obm-full (all services on the same host)
------------------------------------------------------

If you have an already running remote host or a VM on your desktop, you can directly use the obmfull-example inventory provided by OBM-Deploy.

The only thing you need to do is to replace obm.example.com with your hostname in the obmfull-example file.

Then, you can make your first automated deployment :

    $ ansible-playbook -i obmfull-example obm.yml
